The Project Gutenberg eBook of Book of brief narratives, Multum in
parvo library, vol. 1, no. 12, December, 1894, by Frank Pemmon

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: Book of brief narratives, Multum in parvo library, vol. 1, no.
       12, December, 1894

Editor: Frank Pemmon

Release Date: June 21, 2022 [eBook #68364]

Language: English

Produced by: Demian Katz, Craig Kirkwood, and the Online Distributed
             Proofreading Team at https://www.pgdp.net (Images courtesy
             of the Digital Library@Villanova University.)

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK BOOK OF BRIEF NARRATIVES,
MULTUM IN PARVO LIBRARY, VOL. 1, NO. 12, DECEMBER, 1894 ***


Transcriber’s Note:

Text enclosed by underscores is in italics (_italics_).

Additional Transcriber’s Notes are at the end.

       *       *       *       *       *

Multum in Parvo Library.

Vol. I. DECEMBER, 1894. _Published Monthly._ No. 12.




Book of Brief Narratives.


  _Smallest Magazine in the World. Subscription
  price, 50 cts. per year. Single copies, 5 cents each._

  PUBLISHED BY
  A. B. COURTNEY,
  671 Tremont Street, Boston.

       *       *       *       *       *

DETECTIVE STORIES.

From the Diary of a New York Detective.

EDITED BY FRANK PEMMON.




A Chance Meeting.


Several years ago I was detailed to undertake the solution of a mystery
surrounding a robbery which had baffled the police for a month or more.
Then two detectives had been set at work upon it and had failed to
locate the thief. I was given the case. I did not exactly succeed in
finding the thief, but I brought him to justice, just the same. How,
you shall see.

The house of Mr. Bond had been broken into and a large amount of
jewelry stolen. Among the latter was a handsome gold watch belonging
to the daughter of Mr. Bond. It had been a birthday present from her
mother, and was highly prized by her. Her father offered a large reward
for its recovery. I called at the home of Mr. Bond to get a description
of the missing jewelry and whatever other information the family could
give me. This was little enough. The jewelry had been stolen and no
trace of the thief was to be found. That was all. I was expected, with
no clue whatever to work upon, to ferret out and bring the thief to
justice, and at the same time recover Miss Bond’s watch. The only
thing that the thief had left behind him was a piece of paper on which
was written the words:

“Remember the poor.” I did not regard this as being of any importance,
and gave it little or no thought.

I was a young man at the time, unmarried, and, as it may be guessed,
susceptible to the charms of pretty girls. Miss Bond--Clara--was a
pretty girl, and I may as well confess, I fell in love with her at
first sight. I also made an impression upon her. This caused me all the
more eagerly to work up the case and try to bring it to a successful
conclusion. Who knows, thought I, what may be at the end of it? I made
a good many visits to the Bond house, nominally to seek information,
in reality to gaze upon the face of the charming Miss Bond. My search
for the thief did not progress very favorably. In fact, I had made no
progress whatever. It promised to remain an unsolved mystery. I could
not find the thief. Now comes the strange part of the story--how the
thief found me. I had just boarded a railway train when a man followed
me, and quietly slipped into the seat next to me. He carried a small
bag which he hid under the seat. I also had a bag somewhat similar to
his own.

“Well, Jimmy,” he remarked, “how did you succeed?”

“First rate,” I returned, in a whisper, so as not to betray my identity
by my voice. It was clear that I was in conversation with a thief--he
did not look to my well-trained eyes like an honest man--and I must
keep up the deception.

“Got the swag?” he asked.

I merely tapped my bag for reply. It was nearly dusk and the car lamps
had not been lighted. My companion had not yet discovered his mistake.
I didn’t feel exactly flattered at being mistaken, even in the half
light, for a thief.

“How with you?” I asked.

“Aint done much since I tapped ‘Remember the poor.’”

“Remember the poor!” The words flashed across my mind. Was I on the
track of the thief at last?

“Got the watch yet?” I asked.

“Yes, don’t dare to try to get rid of it. Where is Baggy John, now?”

What the deuce was I to say? Just then a man came down the car aisle.
I saw at once it was the man whom my companion had really expected to
meet. The resemblance between us was remarkable. My companion looked
from one to the other and then tried to get away. Not before I had a
pair of hand-cuffs encircling his wrists, however.

That is how I caught the thief, got my promotion, the reward, and last,
but by no means least, my wife.




How Was She Killed?


“If I ever do it, I’ll do it in that way.”

These were the words I accidentally overheard one day, many years
ago, as I was walking along the beach at one of our celebrated summer
resorts. The person who uttered the above mentioned remark, a young
man of about 28 or 30, spoke only half aloud and was evidently unaware
that there was anyone within hearing distance. It was not my purpose
to play eavesdropper. I was in a thoughtful mood myself, and with my
head bowed almost upon my breast I had overtaken the young man and
overheard his words. He had been reading a paper-covered novel of the
sensational kind. As I passed him I glanced at the title. It was, “How
was she killed?” I passed on my way as if I had not heard anything,
and the young man turned to his book, in which he was evidently much
interested. I had taken a sufficiently good look at the man to enable
me to recognize him again. My memory for faces and forms is very good.
On my return to the hotel I saw a number of copies of “How Was She
Killed?” on sale. Partly out of curiosity I bought one and read it. I
was afterward glad I did so.

Two years after the incident just narrated I was detailed to undertake
the solution of a mystery surrounding the death of an unknown young
lady. She had been found dead in the woods. It looked like a case of
suicide by poison, as there were no marks of any kind upon the body to
show that death had been the result of violence. An examination of the
stomach was held, but there was no trace of poison in it. It was in a
perfectly healthy condition. There was nothing to show that death had
resulted from natural causes. If it was a case of suicide, how had the
act been committed; if of murder, how had the murderer done his work?
No one claimed the body and it lay for several days in the morgue.

The examination of the doctors and others had evidently not been of a
very thorough nature. I examined the body myself very carefully and
found what they had apparently overlooked--a tiny mark near the heart,
so small that at first sight it was not observable. At my request the
heart was opened and examined. The result was as I had expected. The
organ contained a fine steel needle, pointed at both ends. This was
what had caused the unfortunate woman’s death. She had been murdered,
and the murderer had done his work in such a manner as to allay all
suspicion--almost. I immediately thought of the sensational novel, “How
Was She Killed?” The victim in that story had met her death at the
hands of her lover in exactly this way. Had this young lady a lover or
any one who wished to get her out of the way? It was a week before she
was identified; and when she was, her lover--a scheming rascal--was
found to be no other than the man I had encountered two years before
and had overheard make the remark with which this story opens. It was
an easy task to prove him guilty of the murder of his sweetheart, and
he saved himself from the gallows only by committing suicide after his
trial and conviction.




It Was Not Murder.


Old Farmer Bunker lived alone. His wife had died years ago and he had
never remarried. He had no children. People said he ought not to live
alone, that something was certain to happen to him; robbers would break
into his house and steal his valuables and perhaps kill him. For once
the people happened, so it seemed, to be right. One morning Mr. Bunker
was found dead in his bed, and an ugly knife wound over the heart
seemed to tell only too plainly what had been the cause of his death.
An autopsy was not considered necessary. The services of a detective
rather than those of the medical examiner were called into requisition.
I was the detective detailed to look into the case. The first thought
was that robbery had been committed. An examination of the house failed
to show any evidence that such had been the intention of the murderer.
Apparently nothing had been disturbed. A bureau drawer containing a
large sum of money had not even been opened. Then it was thought that
the old man must have committed suicide. A search was made for the
implement with which he had committed the deed, but it was nowhere to
be found. It was certain that death had been almost instantaneous, and
of course Mr. Bunker could not have had time to hide the instrument of
self-destruction. It was, therefore, unmistakably a case of murder.

I began an immediate and most thorough and systematic search for the
murderer. Although Mr. Bunker had lived alone he was neither a miser
nor a crank, and did not appear to have had an enemy in the world. The
crowds that flocked to the house came to view the body of their old
friend, and to express a wish that his murderer be brought to speedy
justice. Motives of mere curiosity did not actuate many of them. From
several of them I gathered a number of clues, all of which pointed to
one conclusion, namely, that a tramp had been seen coming from the
direction of the Bunker farm early in the morning of the day on which
the body of Mr. Bunker had been found. I now directed my efforts to
trace and locate the tramp. On the next day I had him in custody. He
had not gone far. He made some very extraordinary statements. He said
that Mr. Bunker was his friend, and that he had not killed him. When
searched he had in his possession over $20 in bills. He was also known
to have sent $30 to somebody in Virginia. This money he claimed had
been given to him by Mr. Bunker. He furthermore claimed that he was not
a tramp but a machinist in search of work.

“Was an autopsy held upon the body of Mr. Bunker?” inquired the
suspected man.

“No; the cause of death was too plainly apparent.”

“I thought as much. If an autopsy had been held it would have shown
that Mr. Bunker died a natural death.”

I was impressed with the man’s sincerity. He seemed to be no ordinary
tramp, and I was convinced that he was telling the truth, as he
believed it.

At my request an autopsy was held. The result of it went to prove that
Mr. Bunker’s death occurred from apoplexy, and he was dead several
hours before the knife wound in the heart had been inflicted.

“You evidently did not kill Mr. Bunker,” I said, “but do you know
anything about the knife wound which we supposed caused the death?”

“Yes,” replied the tramp, “I inflicted it myself.”

“You! Why did you do it?”

“I’ll tell you.”

And he told the following story:

  THE TRAMP’S STORY.

  “Joseph Bunker and I have been friends from boyhood. We always lived
  near each other and grew up together. We never quarrelled as most
  boys will. The families of both of us were in well-to-do condition.
  The war came and reduced us to poverty. I forgot to tell you that we
  were natives of and then living in Virginia. After the war I learned
  the trade of a machinist, while Mr. Bunker wandered North to try his
  luck. He succeeded pretty well, I have reason to believe, far better
  than I have. The incident I have to relate occurred just before he
  left for the North. Joseph’s father died. There are a number of
  people in Virginia who, as perhaps you know, have a peculiar custom
  as regards the treatment of their dead. Before burial, in order to
  guard against the terrible possibility of burying their friends alive
  while seeming to be dead, they run a dagger through the heart. The
  Bunker family, as well as mine, had always adhered to this custom.
  Joseph Bunker, however, was an exception to the general rule. He
  believed the custom to be as unnecessary as it was revolting. He
  chose to accept the word of the doctors that his father was really
  dead, and did not believe there was any possibility or probability of
  his being in a trance. He refused to allow his father’s remains to be
  mutilated, as he called it. It was winter time when his father died.
  It was an unusually severe winter, and to dig a grave was out of the
  question. So the body was deposited in the receiving vault to wait
  for spring. In the spring a grave was dug and everything made ready
  for the burial. Just previous to the interment, Joseph expressed a
  desire to look once more upon the face of his dead parent. The casket
  was opened, and a most horrifying sight met the gaze of those who
  stood around. The corpse, as it was believed to be, had evidently
  come to life, and in the struggle to get out of the casket, the
  lid of which had been only too securely fastened down, Mr. Bunker
  had torn his hair out by the handfuls, and had torn to shreds the
  interior furnishings of his narrow prison. Strong man though he was,
  Joseph Bunker fainted away and did not recover consciousness until
  the body of his father had been buried. He and I alone remained by
  the grave side when the others had gone. We then and there made a
  solemn vow that the survivor should perform for the dead man--what
  the doctor should call the dead man--the office which my companion
  had neglected to perform in the case of his father. Shortly
  afterwards, as I have said, Joseph Bunker went North. A week ago I
  wandered into this neighborhood, partly in search of work and partly
  to pay a visit to my old friend. I had his address, for we had
  always been in communication with each other. In nearly all of his
  letters of late, he referred to the fact that his health was failing
  and that he wished I could make it convenient to be present at his
  death. My visit to his house found him suffering from the effects of
  a recent shock of apoplexy. He told me he didn’t think he had long to
  live. He spoke in truth. He died that very night, a few minutes after
  midnight. His last words were: ‘Don’t forget our vow, old friend.’ I
  hadn’t forgotten, but I put off doing the unwelcome work until I was
  certain my old friend was dead. I waited five hours, then I fulfilled
  my vow. I was afraid to be found with the dead body. People would not
  believe my story, I feared. So I struck off and got away as far from
  the place as possible; guilty of no crime, yet fearing punishment at
  the hands of those who would perhaps not believe my story.”




A Freight Car Adventure.


The freight cars of the B. & R. Railroad were being systematically
robbed. During one month in 1891, the railroad company lost over
$5,000 in this way. It was impossible to catch the thieves. On several
occasions the conductor, engineer and brakeman had been shot at, and
narrowly escaped death. The thieves used to board the train either
before it left the freight yard, or during one of its numerous stops
along the road, and hold the train until they had secured what they
wanted, thrown it off, usually in a lonely spot far from dwellings,
and made their escape. On numerous occasions a posse of police were
secreted on the trains, but these nights (the robberies occurred always
at night) the thieves failed to put in an appearance, evidently having
learned that pains had been taken to give them a warm reception. I
suspected something more than the railroad officials seemed to suspect,
and when I was told to do my best to bring the thieves to justice, I
laid my plans accordingly. I sought leave from the conductor to ride on
his train in disguise.

“I can’t allow you to do so without permission from headquarters,”
declared the conductor.

“But I want to try to capture the thieves who have been robbing this
company’s trains and shooting at you, and I haven’t time to get the
necessary permission,” I protested.

The conductor still refused to let me ride.

“I must and shall ride on your train to-night,” I said. “To-morrow
night I shall be a good many miles away and I must carry out my orders
to-night.”

“I have my orders, too, to carry out,” declared the conductor.

“I shall ride, nevertheless,” was my parting shot.

I did not ride. I had no intention of doing so. There was nothing taken
from that train that night.

On the following night I secreted myself in the train, disguised as a
tramp. I lay in hiding in an empty hay car. At the various stopping
places, I took careful note of what occurred. Nothing suspicious
happened until we got about two miles beyond C----. Here the train
slowed up, although there was no station anywhere in sight. From my
post of observation I saw everything that occurred. The conductor
and some of the brakemen broke open the door of a car in which, as I
afterward learned, there was a big consignment of tobacco and cigars. A
large quantity of this was thrown out. Pretty soon one of the brakemen
left his fellows and started rapidly away from the train. Hastily
slipping from my place of concealment, I hurried after him. I had not
taken half a dozen steps when a pistol shot whistled past my head. I
stopped short, drew my revolver and prepared to open fire upon those
in my rear. Just as I turned I saw the conductor take off his hat,
and, holding it in his hand, deliberately fire his revolver at it. On
the morrow, he would doubtless tell a harrowing tale of adventure with
train robbers, and show visible proof of his own narrow escape from
death. I was immediately taken in charge by the train crew, and, it
being part of my plan, I made no resistance. We had not gone many miles
when the conductor came to me and magnanimously offered me my freedom
and promised not to turn me over to the authorities, if I would go
quietly about my business.

“Why do you hold me prisoner?” I demanded.

“For complicity in robbing this train,” replied the conductor, coolly.
“Your accomplice got away.”

“Yours, you mean,” I remarked.

“Who’ll believe that story?”

The conductor did not suspect my identity. He put me off the train. If
he had known whom I was, my life would probably not have been worth ten
cents.

I hurried to the nearest station, hunted up the telegraph operator, and
when the robbed train reached the end of its run, there were several
policemen on hand to put the conductor and his accomplices under arrest.

       *       *       *       *       *

For another lot of choice detective stories see No. 11 of Multum in
Parvo Library.




Two Ghosts.


The following extraordinary story came under my observation some years
ago:

Tom Johnson and Jack Spencer were close friends. One evening in
Johnson’s room they played cards and Spencer won every cent Johnson
had. Spencer was visiting his friend at the time, and retired to
sleep with him. Sometime after midnight Spencer awoke feeling very
uncomfortable. There was a strange silence in the room. Johnson,
usually a loud snorer, was sleeping as quietly and peacefully as a
baby. Was he really sleeping or was he dead? This question flashed
across Spencer’s mind. He leaned toward his friend to ascertain whether
he was breathing. He was not. He felt for his heart. It was not
beating. He raised his friend’s head from the pillow. It dropped back,
heavy as lead. The limbs were stiff. The _rigor mortis_ had already
come upon the body.

“Johnson must have committed suicide,” thought Spencer aghast. “It’s
all on account of his losing so much money at cards. Now that it
has been impressed upon me, I recall his strange remark on saying
good-night. It was, ‘Well, if I should die to-night, good-bye, old
fellow.’ And he seemed quite despondent. I also saw him drink something
out of a small phial, poison, no doubt. What shall I do? I have been
indirectly the cause of his committing suicide. I won all his money at
cards--money which he no doubt had intended to devote to some special
purpose. How can I face his mother under such circumstances? I can not
and shall not. I’ll get out of the way for a few days, until I recover
from the shock of this terrible affair.”

Another impulse came to him and he proceeded to set upon it. He took
nearly all the money from his pocket and put it on the table, where the
friends of the dead man would be sure to find it. He also placed near
it a note, inscribed as follows: “Please use this money to defray the
funeral expenses. Spencer.”

Then he quietly left the house, and he took the first train from the
city. He eagerly scanned the evening papers next day, for news of the
finding of the dead body of Johnson. There was nothing to that effect,
but instead he read the following item concerning himself:

  IS IT SUICIDE?

  John Spencer has mysteriously disappeared and is supposed to have
  committed suicide. Before committing the rash act, he left a sum of
  money which he directed to be used for defraying the burial expenses.
  The ponds in the neighborhood are being dragged in the hope of
  finding the body.

His surprise on reading the above can readily be imagined. He returned
home immediately. Almost the first person he met was his friend,
Johnson.

Spencer staggered and put his hand to his head. Was he awake? Johnson
showed similar signs of surprise.

“Then you didn’t commit suicide,” said Johnson.

“And you are not dead?” returned Spencer.

“Dead? Certainly not.”

“But I left you for dead in bed last night.”

“Dead! You must have been dreaming.”

“No; you were pulseless and cold and stiff.”

“Ah,” said Johnson, “that is easily explained. I was simply in one of
my cataleptic fits. No wonder you thought I was dead.”

“Yes, I thought you had committed suicide.”

“That’s what we all thought about you. What did you leave the money
for?”

“Why, to pay your funeral expenses.”

“Well, since I don’t need it, I shall return it,” said Johnson. “I was
afraid I’d have to use it to pay yours.”

“I am glad it has all turned out so happily, old fellow,” said Spencer,
and the two ghosts shook hands.




He Addressed the Jury.


A man who had never seen the inside of a courtroom until he was
introduced as a witness in a case pending in one of the Scottish
courts, on being sworn, took a position with his back to the jury, and
began telling his story to the judge.

The judge, in a bland and courteous manner, said,--

“Address yourself to the jury, sir.”

The man made a short pause, but, notwithstanding what had been said to
him, continued his narrative.

The judge was then more explicit, and said to him, “Speak to the jury,
sir; the men sitting behind you on the benches.”

The witness at once turned around, and, making an awkward bow, said,
with perfect gravity,--

“Good morning, gentlemen.”

       *       *       *       *       *

Transcriber’s Note:

Punctuation has been made consistent.

The following change was made:

p. 7: married changed to remarried (never remarried. He)

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK BOOK OF BRIEF NARRATIVES,
MULTUM IN PARVO LIBRARY, VOL. 1, NO. 12, DECEMBER, 1894 ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that:

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
